So we're gonna be doing
unit testing because, yeah,
that makes the most sense for
what we're doing.
So we're gonna use a framework
called Jest to do some unit testing.
And we're not gonna write
tests on everything.
We're not gonna get 100% test coverage
right now, but we'll write enough
tests to understand how it works, and
how to use it, and things like that.
So Jest is a testing framework
created by Facebook that's heavily
based off of other testing frameworks that
came before it like Mocha and Jasmine.
Jest is just like,
it learned from all those people.
Yeah, it learned from all of those and
incorporated things that worked,
didn't incorporate things that
didn't work, and it's kind of just
been adopted as a standard going
forward for most of the tests.
You can even test the front-end
stuff with Jest, it's very generic.
So yeah, let's do that.
First thing we'll do is we'll make a new
directory on our root called tests,
plural.
I'm gonna get rid of this test.js
file that I have, not to be confused.
So then inside of there,
we're just going to test the notes.
So we're gonna say, notes.test.js.
So there's somewhat of a convention here,
but it doesn't really matter,
cuz you can tell Jest to
test any file that you want.
But if you have .test in your file name,
it will automatically look for
that file and test it.
How do you think Jest finds
the files in your app?
What do you think it uses?
>> Import.
>> Yeah, but what module?
>> The fs.
>> The fs module, yeah, Jest uses the fs
module to find files in your app.
It looks to see if any of them has
.tests and then it imports them.
So, like I said, fs module's strong.
It does a lot of automations and
stuff, so that's what Jest is doing.
Let's look at the anatomy of a test.
So, It's pretty simple.
At the end of the day, your test is
gonna be executed in a sub environment.
It's still Node.js, but
it's being wrapped by Jest,
which is providing its own
global tools for you, basically.
So one of the tools is
a function called test.
So with this function called test,
we're gonna do things.
So we can say, test,
we can describe the test that we wanna do.
I wanna test('add takes two numbers and
return a sum'), right?
We would do that.
That takes a call back.
And I'm just gonna make a function
called add here, takes a number,
And another number, and
just returns the sum of them.
So all I'm going to do is run that
code and I'll get the result.
I'll say result = add(1,2),
so that should get back 3.
And then what I can do is I can use the
assertion library that's built into Jest,
which is called Expect, and
I can do different assertions on it.
I can basically check to see if something
is what it's supposed to be or not.
So in this case, I can say,
I expect(result).toBe(3).
I expect result to be 3.
I think there's a .toBe.
Let's look it up.
Let's see.
Jest, Matchers.
Let's see, .toBe, there is, there we go.
So, yeah, you could do expect
something to be some other things.
So let's try that.
So now, to run the test,
I'm gonna go to package.json.
If you look at the scripts object, there's
already something here called test.
If you run it,
you'll just get back an error.
So to run anything in the scripts
section of the package.json,
you can just do npm run, and
then the name of the script.
In this case, test.
So if you do npm run test,
you'll run a test.
In this case, you'll see that it says
it's missing the script test, and
that's because test is a special one.
I don't know why they made some
special and some not special.
Test, you don't actually have to type run,
you can just type npm test,
like you have to, and
that will actually run the test.
But you can see we don't have any test
specified, so it throws an error.
That's the error we're getting.
But you can add any script you want here.
You can put, I don't know, thing and
you can write any bash stuff in here.
It'll run it, whatever you want.
Anything that'll work in the terminal,
you can do there.
So we're gonna replace this with Jest.
And then we need to install it, right?
So npm install jest.
Once you use the --save-dev
flag to save a module,
it's going to create a new object
here in your package.json that says
devDependencies, which is
different than dependencies.
The only differences here is
a devDependency is a dependency
that you don't need to run your app.
I don't need to test for my app to work.
Running the test is a different
execution than running the app.
It's a dependency that I depend on for
developing.
So it's a devDependency.
And the reason I want to distinguish
the two is cuz when I go to deploy in
production, I probably don't wanna spend
time downloading my devDependencies,
because production probably won't need
them cuz it only needs the code that
it needs for it to run.
That also depends on your pipeline.
Maybe the same system that runs your
code in production also test your code.
So maybe you do need to
install devDependencies.
It just really depends.
But for the most part,
it's clean just to separate them out.
Also, for the purpose of this is
a package that I'm publishing on npm,
other people are going to install it.
They're never going to test my code.
I test my code.
So when they type in npm install and
install my package,
I don't want them to have to also install
my devDependencies that they'll never use.
So I'm just going to include
them in devDependencies.
Once they install my package through npm,
npm will only install the dependencies
that my package depend on, and not the
devDependencies that my package depend on,
because they're not necessary for
my package to run.
They're only necessary for
me to develop with.
That makes sense?
So this is just for development.
This is for actually running.
We don't need Jest to run this code.
We only need Jest to test this code.
Okay, so replace that with Jest,
got our test here.
And we can just type npm test,
and there you go.
It went and
found this test at notes.test.js.
You can see right here we have pass,
we got a green checkmark, add takes two
numbers and returns a sum, and one pass,
one ran, everything's good to go.
So let's see what happens if we fail this.
So like I say, Iexpect that to be 7,
then it's gonna say,
okay, that one failed.
So we expected 3, or I'm sorry,
we expected 7, and
that's what you said you expected to get.
But instead, what we received was 3.
So something's off here.
Either you wrote a bad test or
your function's wrong.
So in this case, I clearly wrote a bad
test, my function's doing the right job.
So I would change that to 3.
And the other alternative
way is if I change that.
So now, I'm sorry, if I did like this.
So now my code is wrong, but
I'm expecting it to be a sum, right?
So we'll still get to fail,
but now it's the inverse.
So expected the 3, received the -1.
So this is why test is good, cuz you can
write tests if you know what you need
to do, and then you can just go in and
make all the tests pass.
You heard people say TDD or
red green refactor.
So go write a whole bunch of tests,
because you probably, eventually
you'll get to the point where you know
what things are supposed to do even
before you write the code for them.
And that's enough to write tests for
something you haven't made yet.
And obviously, if you run the test for
something you haven't made yet,
it's gonna break.
But if wrote a really good test,
all you got to go do is go in and
just make all those tests pass.
And if you made all the tests pass,
congratulations,
you just wrote the code for the thing.
So do people actually do that?
I've never met anyone in
my life who does that.
But I know some companies that
are very crazy about doing that.
But in reality, it almost never
works out that way, in my opinion,
at least never with me.
Sometimes even if I
know what I need to do,
I definitely don't wanna write tests for
it.
I'm like,
I already know what I need to do, so
I don't feel the need to write tests for
it, cuz I already know what I need to do.
But I can see the argument where like,
well, if you know what you need to do,
why don't you just write the test for
it and then go make those [SOUND]?
I don't care about that.
But on a big team, it's very useful.
It's almost necessary.
You'll see teams say, we're shooting for
80% test coverage or we're shooting for
some threshold of test coverage.
There's tools that will analyze the test
you wrote, the code that your test tested,
and see how much of it was tested,
and it'll give you a percentage.
And if that percentage isn't over
a certain threshold, all your tests fail.
So some companies will do that where it's
like, not only do all your tests has to
pass, it has to pass a certain code
coverage is what they call it.
Yeah, and then it'll even tell
you where you didn't test it.
It'll give you a printout of the code and
be like, everything in yellow or
red is where you did not test.
Still you gotta go right test just for
that, if that you forgot to test for, or
that else if that you forgot.
It's s usually some branch, if else, or
something like that, so it gets crazy.
People in their testing
is like a religion.
So have fun with that on your jobs,
but just letting you know now.
And it's probably
the hardest thing to setup.
So hopefully, it's already set up for
you all at your jobs, but coming in new,
trying to set up testing infrastructure
on a big project is incredibly difficult.
So I highly recommend taking those
courses because it can be tough.
There's a million tools
that do the same thing.
So I'm glad that Frontend Masters
has those courses.
I might even look at them, to be honest.
So obviously, I've been burned by testing,
if you can't tell, so.